Joys of Lock Picking


preface: Lock picking should never be used for criminal intent. I do not condone this type of action. Only practice lock picking on your own items and private property. Picking other people's locks without their permission is highly likely to land you in jail.

v.1.0 - author:grayninja - date:2017-01-24



For as long as I remember, I have enjoyed picking things: winner of football games, scabs, fingernails, my nose. Yet it wasn't until recently that I discovered the joy of picking locks.

Sometime in 2016 I ordered my first lock picking set. It was fantastic to own such a stealthy tool. I can't wait to start picking locks pin by pin. I had some old door locks form when we moved in, so I started there. Boy it was hard. I tried and tried, but I couldn't break through.

It was time to learn from the pros. I watched some videos about the subject and learned about raking. Raking? That looks like cheating. But hey, it's worth a shot. I still couldn't do it :( .

I then asked my co-worker who has experience in lock picking. He taught me proper torque pressure; something very difficult for me to pick up from text or videos. Before I knew it, I was able to pick a few locks! (I have even used my newfound skill for work!)

It is a very satisfying feeling when you pick your first lock. It is a great sense of accomplishment. Shortly after you pick your first lock, you then realize how insecure locks really are. Your basic cabinet or drawer lock is super easy to pick. In fact, I have even picked a drawer lock with only a t-pin and a paper clip. A typical key lock you use on a locker or bike is just as easy. 

Doors are a little more challenging, but I can still break through in a few minutes. Imagine what a seasoned picker could do! 

If you need real protection for your things or even your house, use a non-key lock. Examples are tubular (such a tubular name, dude), combination, and Keyless Keypad Door Locks. If protecting your house is ideal, a security camera system is probably the best deterrent. You may be able to prove that somebody broke in...but getting it on camera will help you catch them.
